E-commerce
  Business Analysis
  By: Udeme Umana

Table Of Content
  ● Introduction
  ● Procedures and tools used
  ● Entity Relational Diagram
  ● Data observation with Sql
  ● Business questions and Problems
  ● Conclusion

Overview
  This project contains datasets that were developed by me from scratch. The
  main objective of this project is to use data to answer real life business
  problems. The dataset consists of the following files: Customer_data,
  Employee_data, job_info, order, product, sales stored procedures, functions
  and a view.

Link to my SQL codes
Project Case:
  I was appointed a data analyst for Udy_Xpress which is an e-commerce
  company. They have recently invested in a new technology and are keen to
  migrate their data into this new capability.
  They currently maintain a suite of excel files, which they want to migrate
  onto a dedicated MYSQL Database. Furthermore, they want to leverage data
  as a source of information and will also want me to lead on the reporting
  process of this project.
Procedures and tools used:
  I focused on cleaning the data, adding new columns where
  necessary and importing the dataset into MySQL Workbench. I
  modified each unique keys for each table to a varchar(12) and later
  converted them into primary and foreign keys in order to get the
  entity relational diagram. Then I conducted Exploratory data
  analysis on the datasets before writing queries to answer various
  business problems.
Entity Relational Diagram
  Data Observation With SQL
  The tables were imported into Udy_Xpress
  database in MySQL Workbench, then I wrote
  queries to interact with the data.
Business Questions
  Your company is having a
  layoff and your boss tells
  you create a list of
  employees that does not
  have a degree.
Business Questions
  My boss wants to know
  the product that
  generated the most sales
  from the data we have.
  Business Problem
  With my experience working as a data analyst at Udy_xpress, I noticed
  that in order to get the price of a product you have to manually search
  for the product code and price from the database. So I created a stored
  procedure that gives you the price of product when you input the
  product code(This is similar to scanning of a product barcode to get the
  price). Below is an illustration of me inputting the product code and
  getting the price.
Business Questions
  I was asked to create a database where the names and emails of customers who subscribed to be receiving
  weekly newsletters are stored.
  So I decided to create a view, The reason for using a view is each time a customer signs up and registers to
  be receiving weekly newsletters on the company’s website, their information is being saved in the customer
  table and it’ll automatically be added to the subscribers_table.
Business Questions
  In the month of march the company had a problem with the price software and it overcharged people that
  placed orders. I was asked to create a list of people that purchased a product/products in the month of march.
  The main aim of doing this is to enable the company know the people that made a purchase during that period
  so that a refund can be given to them.
Business Questions
  Business analysts and customer_care has done well in their jobs and I was asked to give them 0.6 raise for
  business analyst and 0.8 raise for customer care and give the rest 0.3 raise.
Business Problem
  So before udy_express website launched I created a stored procedure that’ll allow
  customers to access their information from the database using their username and
  password. Below shows the user inputting his login details as well as his information
  being displayed:
Business questions
  The manager realised that some departments are short staffed and wants you to find the job
  title with less than 3 people working so that he can hire more people to work in that
  department:
Business Problem
  I realized that I usually need to find the cust_id, country and order date from Udy_Xpress database on a daily
  basis, so I created a CTE to store the query in order for me to be able to run it with few lines of codes.
  I was asked to find the country with the highest customers in the month of February as seen below:
  Business Problem
  I decided to write a function in SQL to format a number that has a Nigerian country
  code. It removes the country code and adds 0 in place of it. (This was just a bonus
  query)
Conclusion
  ● I was able to understand the concept of databases as well as foreign keys and primary
  keys.
  ● I understood how to join multiple tables and how it worked.
  ● I was able to know more about the functionalities of a stored procedure.
  ● For records that you need to update on a regular basis, Views is more suitable to use.
  ● Lastly, I was able to understand how to use functions and its syntax.
  ● SQL codes
Thank you!
